README.md, before:

<img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/e/e9/Jenkins_logo.svg/556px-Jenkins_logo.svg.png" alt="Jenkins logo" height="42px" width="42px" align="left">
<img src="https://proxy.duckduckgo.com/iu/?u=https%3A%2F%2Fd3nmt5vlzunoa1.cloudfront.net%2Fphpstorm%2Ffiles%2F2015%2F10%2Flarge_v-trans.png&f=1" alt="Docker logo" height="42px" width="42px" align="left"><br>

<h1>CI with Jenkins and Docker on Windows for C/C++ code</h1>
<div>
    <a href="https://github.com/NaPiZip/CI-with-jenkins-and-docker-for-cpp">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Document%20Version-0.0.1-brightgreen"/>
    </a>
    <a href="https://www.microsoft.com">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Windows%2010%20x64-10.0.17134%20Build%2017134-blue.svg"/>
    </a>
    <a href="https://jenkins.io/">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Jenkins%20Version-2.176.2-blue"/>
    </a>
    <a href="https://docs.docker.com/toolbox/toolbox_install_windows/">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker%20Toolbox-17.05.0--ce%20Build%2089658be-blue.svg"/>
    </a>

</div>

This is a tutorial showing how to use Jenkins and Docker Toolbox on a Windows machine in order to set up a Continuous Integration system for C/C++. The central part is the Docker Toolbox which is used in order to run the Jenkins host, as well as to run a Docker container with a compiler image for compiling C/C++ source code, the container image is called Dockcross .Dockercross is a cross compiling toolchains in Docker, which utilizes Docker images in order to compile executables for all kinds of platforms a link can be found [here](https://github.com/dockcross/dockcross).


The main goal is to install as little software as possible, such that the coupling between tools is as minimal as needed. This means after installing the Docker Toolbox and cloning the Git repo, there should be no additional software needed in order to develop C/C++ code. To summarize the goals:
- Create a CI build environment with as little tool coupling.
- Should support automated testing after each code commit.
- The Git repo should be self containing.
-  There should be the possibility of extension of the toolchain.

## Installation
The following programs are needed:<br>
1. Git<br>
2. Docker Toolbox for Windows<br>
3. Jenkis Docker images<br>
4. Dockcross Docker image<br>

## Communication diagram
Image showing how docker, dockcross and Jenkis communicate.

## Tutorial
This section describes how to set up a "local" Jenkins host which is triggered by changes of the git repository, then builds the executables and runs all the defined tests.

1. Run the Jenkins docker image:
```
docker run \
  -u root \
  --rm \
  -d \
  -p 8080:8080 \
  -p 50000:50000 \
  -v jenkins-data:/var/jenkins_home \
  -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
  jenkinsci/blueocean
```
2. Configure the Jenkins host according to post installation [manual](https://jenkins.io/doc/book/installing#setup-wizard).

<b>Dockercross error note</b><br>
The following section show an error which occurred on my machine, trying to run dockcross. It looks like there is a path formation error going on my machine.

```
$ ./dockcross cmake -h
C:\Program Files\Docker Toolbox\docker.exe: Error response from daemon: invalid mode: /work.
See 'C:\Program Files\Docker Toolbox\docker.exe run --help'.
Error response from daemon: No such container: dockcross_32348
```
I tracked down the error to lines 199 and 200 of the `dockercross` file.

```
199 HOST_PWD=${HOST_PWD/\//}
200 HOST_PWD=${HOST_PWD/\//:\/}
```
Those two lines cause a path error, the following lines shows the arguments of the `docker run` command. Showing that the work path is not formatted correctly, the path should be starting with `/e/080_Github...`.

```
--name dockcross_17497 -v e:/080_Github/CI-with-jenkins-and-docker-for-cpp:/work dockcross/windows-static-x64:latest cmake -h
```

Resolving the access error in Jenkins<br>
[This element needs more time explore.](https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker#installing-more-tools)

<b>Dockercross error note second</b><br>
The following error occurred during the build in jenkins, due to the issue of running dockcross on Docker Toolbox within a Unix container.
```
bash-4.4# ./dockcross_pre cmake --help
cp: target '/home/root/' is not a directory
chown: cannot access '/home/root': No such file or directory
```

Debugging showed the following `docker run` arguments get passed:<br>
```
-ti --name dockcross_12203 -v /home:/work -e BUILDER_UID=0 -e BUILDER_GID=0 -e BUILDER_USER=root -e BUILDER_GROUP=root dockcross/windows-static-x64:latest cmake --help
```
Under Windows the correct commands look like that:<br>
```
--name dockcross_5263 -v e:/080_Github/CI-with-jenkins-and-docker-for-cpp:/work dockcross/windows-static-x64:latest cmake --help
```

## Creating a custom dockcross container

## Contributing
To get started with contributing to my GitHub repository, please contact me [Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/napi-friends/shared_invite/enQtNDg3OTg5NDc1NzUxLWU1MWNhNmY3ZTVmY2FkMDM1ODg1MWNlMDIyYTk1OTg4OThhYzgyNDc3ZmE5NzM1ZTM2ZDQwZGI0ZjU2M2JlNDU).

Commit message:

Added reference to Jenkins doc.

README.md, after:

<img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/e/e9/Jenkins_logo.svg/556px-Jenkins_logo.svg.png" alt="Jenkins logo" height="42px" width="42px" align="left">
<img src="https://proxy.duckduckgo.com/iu/?u=https%3A%2F%2Fd3nmt5vlzunoa1.cloudfront.net%2Fphpstorm%2Ffiles%2F2015%2F10%2Flarge_v-trans.png&f=1" alt="Docker logo" height="42px" width="42px" align="left"><br>

<h1>CI with Jenkins and Docker on Windows for C/C++ code</h1>
<div>
    <a href="https://github.com/NaPiZip/CI-with-jenkins-and-docker-for-cpp">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Document%20Version-0.0.1-brightgreen"/>
    </a>
    <a href="https://www.microsoft.com">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Windows%2010%20x64-10.0.17134%20Build%2017134-blue.svg"/>
    </a>
    <a href="https://jenkins.io/">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Jenkins%20Version-2.176.2-blue"/>
    </a>
    <a href="https://docs.docker.com/toolbox/toolbox_install_windows/">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker%20Toolbox-17.05.0--ce%20Build%2089658be-blue.svg"/>
    </a>

</div>

This is a tutorial showing how to use Jenkins and Docker Toolbox on a Windows machine in order to set up a Continuous Integration system for C/C++. The central part is the Docker Toolbox which is used in order to run the Jenkins host, as well as to run a Docker container with a compiler image for compiling C/C++ source code, the container image is called Dockcross .Dockercross is a cross compiling toolchains in Docker, which utilizes Docker images in order to compile executables for all kinds of platforms a link can be found [here](https://github.com/dockcross/dockcross).


The main goal is to install as little software as possible, such that the coupling between tools is as minimal as needed. This means after installing the Docker Toolbox and cloning the Git repo, there should be no additional software needed in order to develop C/C++ code. To summarize the goals:
- Create a CI build environment with as little tool coupling.
- Should support automated testing after each code commit.
- The Git repo should be self containing.
-  There should be the possibility of extension of the toolchain.

## Installation
The following programs are needed:<br>
1. Git<br>
2. Docker Toolbox for Windows<br>
3. Jenkis Docker images<br>
4. Dockcross Docker image<br>

## Communication diagram
Image showing how docker, dockcross and Jenkis communicate.

## Tutorial
This section describes how to set up a "local" Jenkins host which is triggered by changes of the git repository, then builds the executables and runs all the defined tests.

1. Run the Jenkins docker image:
```
docker run \
  -u root \
  --rm \
  -d \
  -p 8080:8080 \
  -p 50000:50000 \
  -v jenkins-data:/var/jenkins_home \
  -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
  jenkinsci/blueocean
```
A detailed description of the Jenkins Docker image can be found [here](https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker/blob/master/README.md).

2. Configure the Jenkins host according to post installation [manual](https://jenkins.io/doc/book/installing#setup-wizard).

<b>Dockercross error note</b><br>
The following section show an error which occurred on my machine, trying to run dockcross. It looks like there is a path formation error going on my machine.

```
$ ./dockcross cmake -h
C:\Program Files\Docker Toolbox\docker.exe: Error response from daemon: invalid mode: /work.
See 'C:\Program Files\Docker Toolbox\docker.exe run --help'.
Error response from daemon: No such container: dockcross_32348
```
I tracked down the error to lines 199 and 200 of the `dockercross` file.

```
199 HOST_PWD=${HOST_PWD/\//}
200 HOST_PWD=${HOST_PWD/\//:\/}
```
Those two lines cause a path error, the following lines shows the arguments of the `docker run` command. Showing that the work path is not formatted correctly, the path should be starting with `/e/080_Github...`.

```
--name dockcross_17497 -v e:/080_Github/CI-with-jenkins-and-docker-for-cpp:/work dockcross/windows-static-x64:latest cmake -h
```

Resolving the access error in Jenkins<br>
[This element needs more time explore.](https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker#installing-more-tools)

<b>Dockercross error note second</b><br>
The following error occurred during the build in jenkins, due to the issue of running dockcross on Docker Toolbox within a Unix container.
```
bash-4.4# ./dockcross_pre cmake --help
cp: target '/home/root/' is not a directory
chown: cannot access '/home/root': No such file or directory
```

Debugging showed the following `docker run` arguments get passed:<br>
```
-ti --name dockcross_12203 -v /home:/work -e BUILDER_UID=0 -e BUILDER_GID=0 -e BUILDER_USER=root -e BUILDER_GROUP=root dockcross/windows-static-x64:latest cmake --help
```
Under Windows the correct commands look like that:<br>
```
--name dockcross_5263 -v e:/080_Github/CI-with-jenkins-and-docker-for-cpp:/work dockcross/windows-static-x64:latest cmake --help
```

## Creating a custom dockcross container

## Contributing
To get started with contributing to my GitHub repository, please contact me [Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/napi-friends/shared_invite/enQtNDg3OTg5NDc1NzUxLWU1MWNhNmY3ZTVmY2FkMDM1ODg1MWNlMDIyYTk1OTg4OThhYzgyNDc3ZmE5NzM1ZTM2ZDQwZGI0ZjU2M2JlNDU).
